# CS4550 Project Proposal

## My Movie Network

The project I am working on is called My Movie Network and it is
essentially a social network centered around movies. I (Andrew Huang) will be
working on this project alone. The API I am using is called The Movie
Database API where I am mainly using the API to search for movies and
get their information. The Movie Database API contains information
about movies, TV shows, and actors. The API requires an API key for
authentication and has multiple endpoints such as GET movie by id.
The only format of the responses is in JSON.

The key features of this project that I am planning include user
lists/rankings, movie polls, user network (ability to follow and be
followed), and user ability to write reviews and posts. I am taking
inspiration from IMDB, an online database about movies, as well as
social media platforms like Facebook and Reddit. The design of
current popular social media platforms promote user interactivity,
which I think will benefit the movie domain. The realtime behavior
that I have currently planned is creating a feed from the users that
the user follows. Feeds will updated in real time when followed users
post, create a new poll, a poll has ended, or other activity occurs. I may also maintain a realtime feed about the most popular posts that is updated whenever a movie is added to a list or is reviewed. I may also implement realtime notifications that notify users when they are followed, when another user comments or likes their posts, or when another user votes in their poll.

I will be storing many persistent states other than users in the postgres DB. At minimum, I will need to store states for polls, posts, reviews, and lists/rankings. Users will have a one to many relationship with these additional states (any user can create multiple polls, posts, etc.) and each of these additional states will be owned by one user.

The Users table will need to store many fields such as username (which must be unique), password hash (which is the hash of the password inputted when registering and salted), a photo hash (file location hash of uploaded profile picture), and a description. Polls will need to keep track of user votes. The vote will be made up of the username that voted and the movie ID of the movie they selected for. Polls will have a status, open or closed, and can only be closed by the poll creator, also known as the poll owner. Polls will also have a title and description. Users vote by searching for a movie and submitting it. Users can edit their votes anytime the poll is open but they only have one vote, so by voting more than once only the latest vote is counted. Posts will be just a table with field body which is the text owned by a user. Lists will be a table tracking movie IDs owned by a user. Rankings will be similar to lists except the movies will be indexed (have another field for ranking). There will be a comments and likes table where posts, polls, and lists will have many comments and likes. There will also be movie table to keep track of user rating and likes.

The "something neat" that I plan on doing is creating data visualizations about user data such as most mentioned movies and movie statistics. I plan on using a React data visualization library called react-vis to achieve this. I believe this would be "neat" and nontrivial as I plan to use complex queries to display relevant statistics and visualizations as well as use a library I'm not familiar with and can't be achieved by adding more trivial elixir code. The visualization that I am most sure about right now is the bar graph as a lot of the data I will be working with is categorical so it will be easier and effective to display in a bar graph. In order to make a nontrivial contribution to the project, I plan to see if I can manipulate the data or create complex queries to create a visualization that is complex yet meaningful. I was also planning on trying to include statistics in some shape or form. For instance, creating a visualization of some distribution would be interesting and meaningful.

I decided to go with the suggestion of testing the API and the "something neat" I would implement. The two experiments I ran was trying the search for movies with the word "Parasite" from The Movie Database API and trying to create different data visualizations using react-vis. The first experiment (querying for movies with the word "Parasite") was implemented by making a get request in Elixir using HTTPoison, decoding the body of the response using Jason, and displaying the result on a new page. This can be seen by clicking the "Experiment" link on the home page. Through this experiment, I was able to successfully query from the movie API and learn what the schema of the response was like. This helped me get a better idea of what I want the movie search workflow to be like and what kind of information I can get about movies from the API. The second experiment I ran was trying to see if I could get data visualizations to work using react-vis. I was successfully able to get a vertical bar chart, heat map, and a line series to appear. This also helped me learn more about what parameters are required for the visualizations and gave me a better understanding of which visualizations would work with the data I would have (for instance, the heatmap in react-vis only takes in numbers for x and y which I didn't know beforehand). I consider both of these two experiments to be a success as I was able to successfully display what I originally wanted on the web page. In addition, the experiments allowed me to confirm that the API had sufficient information about movies and that the movie search query would function correctly. The experiments also allowed me to confirm that the data visualization library had various graphs and charts I could use, would be able to take in data, and that it was customizable.

The result of my experiments can be seen after running mix phx.server. The home page (localhost:4000) will contain the data visualizations and the experiment page (localhost:4000/experiment) will contain the result of the API search query get request.

Users that I expect to use my app are people who are passionate about movies or want to learn more about movies. My main goal with this project is to create a social network platform centered around movies where movie information and rankings are easily accessible. My main motivation was my own experience of trying to find movies that I wanted to watch. After browsing IMDB and seeing rankings on Rotten Tomato, I desired a platform that felt more social and less formal that still had important information about movies. I wanted to create a platform that emphasized opinions, discussions, and reactions about movies. I expect that the users will have varying degree of knowledge about movies and have different backgrounds. In additon, I expect users will have knowledge about social media platforms as most people on the Internet do nowadays so they will be familiar with most of the functionality such as polls, posts/discussions, and rankings.

I am still not very set on the workflow (subject to change) but my main vision for the project is based on the workflow of Facebook. Upon landing on the home page, a user must login or register before seeing any content. After logging in, the home page is now a feed based on who the user follows. On the feed, the user will be able to interact with whatever item is displayed. For instance, if there are reviews on the feed the user will be able to comment. If there are polls the user will be able to vote. In addition, users will be able to like posts or lists. There will also be a navigation header or side bar where the user can navigate to other functionalities of the app. Most likely there will be an button that redirects the user to create something new. After clicking on the button, the user will be given different options such as create new post, create new list, or create new poll. After clicking on one of these options, the user will be redirected to a form where they will be able to fill out the relevant information. After submitting the form, the user will have created the new item that they chose and users that follow that user will have their feed updated. Another button that will be on the navigation sidebar will be a button that redirects the user to their profile. For the profile page of users, a timeline of their most recent activity will be displayed, their profile information will be displayed in a card (username, profile picture, number of followers, and description), their lists/rankings, and other relevant user information. Another page that users can access will be a search form. The search form will have two main functionalites: search for other users or search for movies. The search for users form will only be based on username and the result of submitting this form will be a page of links to user profiles with usernames matching to the input query. The search for movies form will have inputs for multiple params such as name, date, language, etc. After submitting the search for movies form, the page will be filled with links to movie profiles returned from the search query (which will be a search query to The Movie Database API). Movie profiles will look similar to user profiles but they would essentially be wrappers for a get movie request to The Movie Database API and display the relevant information from the response. The last page that I've planned so far is a statistics or popularity page where I will display the data visualizations and statistics of user data such as most movies mentioned in rankings.

There many ways users can interact with other users. They can follow each other, comment or like each other's posts and lists, and vote on each other's polls. Comments will only be able to edited by the commenter and posts and lists can be unliked. If users do not follow anyone, then their feed will be empty.

Since the navigation of the app is rather simple, the user workflow will also be rather simple. The most common workflow of a registered user that has followed other users is to log in on the home page and scroll through and interact with the feed. A user that has not registered will have to first register using the register form, log in, find users to follow, then scroll through and interact with their feed.

The most complex areas that I am expecting from this project is implementing all of the items users can do. Currently the tables that I have planned are users, posts, lists, polls, rankings, comments, likes, and movies. Consequently, there will be a lot more tables than previous projects and the interactions will be a lot more complex. I am also a little worried about implementing realtime updates and how to implement the feed. I might have to implement an algorithm to determine what goes into the user feed. I also need to make sure that the "something neat", which is the data visualizations, are complex enough to merit being "something neat". These complex areas are also the ones I am most excited about since I am trying to mimick certain aspects of popular social media platforms that I admire (in terms of design).

There are many uncertainties I have about my planned project since the design is a lot more complex than previous projects. As I start to work on the details and actually implementing the project, there are many decisions and planned designs that I expect to change. In addition, I have planned a lot of different functionalities (polls, posts, lists) but due to the deadline (and since I'm working alone) I may have to see whether what I planned is too ambitious or not.

API:
https://developers.themoviedb.org/3/getting-started/introduction

"something neat"/react-vis:
https://github.com/uber/react-vis
